---
title: "On Internet Advice"
description: "where is the trust?"
date: 2024-05-16
type: "posts"
---

Advice columns used to be part of the quintessential newspaper experience. Along with comic strips and crosswords, advice columns are low cost media that draw people in and help pay for the actual loss-leading journalism. As the internet was born, people went from calling into radio stations and writing into newspaper outlets to submitting their life stories online. With the death of the phrase "you're on the air", came niche forums where you can ask advice on your particular hobby or lifestyle, which could never be asked to your local radio station or newspaper. Of course forums died as well (in the West), as the centralized social media conquered the forum model of the early 2000s.

The result of these hyper-niche communities is that people can identify themselves by a singular aspect of their personality, and find like-minded peers who share in their passion. This can lead to extremely beneficial outcomes, take the scenario where someone teaches themselves car repair directly from auto maintenance forums, and creates a livelihood from that. Truly a moment where the internet has democratized education as promised. Though these forums lack the hilarity of the Magliozzi brothers in "Car Talk", their crowdsourcing nature means even the most obscure carburetor issues will be covered in great detail. On the other hand, internet forums also serve as a vehicle to reinforce negative self-beliefs to the extreme. The rise of the internet-dubbed "gender wars" are specifically engendered by forums that convince users that they don't need the other gender, and provide strategies for manipulating the opposite kind. A unsuspecting person who is seeking advice on dressing a little bit better can quickly fall down the rabbit hole of insular and toxic beliefs.

If a collection of internet strangers aren't to always be trusted, and newspaper advice columns are flashes from a bygone era, than who can we go to for advice? Maybe the answer is not in a collective echo chamber, but in reputable person that is approved of by many people. In walks the aptly named influencer. A quick search on YouTube can lead you to an immensely popular and credentialed plastic surgeon, who will tell you exactly how a surgery will work and the possible outcomes. The consumer is more informed, and the surgeon gets to advertise that their clinic does things right. Of course, corporations did not take long to notice the rise of the influencer. If someone is trusted by a following of ardent fans, renting their reputation is the easiest way to produce guaranteed sales.

Suddenly one must weigh the financial incentives that are at play with free advice. An influencer who has had a positive experience with therapy will justify that a sponsorship promoting online therapy is a win-win as it aligns with their beliefs. But in doing so they may over-endorse the positive aspects of therapy and the specific online provider. They are being actively discouraged from independently verifying the actual effectiveness of both and presenting a balanced perspective due to monetary reward.

Recently a new challenger has appeared that wants you to ask it for advice. An unbiased source of truth with a slightly unfortunate habit of hallucination. Every investor in Silicon Valley is pumping every last dollar they have into language models that can spit out amalgamations of all the answers us humans have been posting to the internet for free. These investors of course want to reap significant returns off of the collective human knowledge that has been deposited on the vast plains of the internet. If the prophecies of people eventually completely relying ai assistants ring true, what happens when people stop posting their questions and answers on forums? Will these bots cease to function, or are they actually able to deduce novel answers from a set of solved principles the way a human does?